201d7.md, before:

# Day 7 Notes 

About Salmon Cookies: 
We want all of the rendering being done by the methods on the object. <br />

Render the function which determines cookie sales on each location. <br />
## 3 steps to get an element into the DOM: 
1. create a variable/element 
2. Give it content/text
3. Append it to the DOM. <br />
To append to the DOM, you need two things. 
1. a window into the DOM. (like getElementById)
2. An element that you can append to the DOM 

Just Get Seattle figured out, then copy and paste for other locations. Code will not be dry yet, but we will fix that later. <br />

For the cookies per hour array, push the number of cookies sold per hour into the array. Then add up the indices of the array for total cookies sold. <br />
Need to calculate cookies per hour once for each hour, likely will need a for loop to get this done. <br /> 

She is outlining it pretty well throughout the class, refer back to the video or to the app.js notes she is including. What she did was only for one hour of the day, we will need to do it for 14 hours of the day. <br /> ends at 6:56

12/23 In Class Lecture

She recommends doing the reading due on the tuesday by Monday, since we will likely be covering that in class. 
Class Lecture covers in depth how to do the Lab 6, worth referering back to. 


### 12/27 In Class Lecture

For Today: Code challenge. <br />

Focus of rest of lecture should be on tables and fonts. <br />
you will need to do CSS stuff on salmon cookies lab 6 eventually, focus on that today. <br />

### fonts 

Serif Fonts: a little extra flourish to the text, specifically on the foot. <br />
Sans Serif Fonts: No feet, looks blockier. Tend to read better on a screen due to pixelation. Also good for body texts. For the assignment, some text must be serif, some data mustbe in sans serif.  <br />
Specified fonts will have multiple font options. These are fallback fonts, so if a computer doesnt have it installed, you get the backup fonts.  Typically want to use fonts in common useage. <br /><br />
Google Fonts: Google provides fonts for anyone to use. To add a desired font, use +select this style on the page, it will open a side menu to open, and you then get a link to put in your HTML file. It is added BEFORE your stylesheet. When you do this, keep in mind the name of the font so you can access it in the stylesheets. Only need to use one google font. <br /><br />

### Tables 
<br />
Used to present data in rows and columns. It used to be that tables were the primary way you would design a page. <br />
When you make a tble using the table start and end tags, the browser itself will add the table body. So, its a good idea for you to add the Tbody yourself. <br />
Tbody is similar to the main tag in HTML. Existance of a body implies that there is also a T Head and a t Foot. T head is where you put the header cells(labels) and t foot is an ending cell, where you might have the sum of all the above cells. <br />

Query Selector allows you to target things in the DOM by their CSS Selectors. She goes over this at 811 in the class, updating the dom-manipulation-kitten file from a few days ago. <br />

Keep an eye on where your table data elements are, and make sure they are in the proper row. It can get confusing, she goes over this around 830. <br />
She says it can be very confusing working wiht tables, so look at your elements tab in your browser developer tools and see what is actually happening. <br />

First priority of lab tonight is to finish lab 6 JavaScript. <br /> If that is finished, then go over the stretch goals for lab 6, the CSS Stuff. <br />

### 12/23 Lecture

Constructor Functions 

Last week, we did object literals, they looked like: 

let oneStudent = {
  name: 'Steve'
  codeClass: 201,
  onLine: true,
};
she then console logs it to see what the object looks like. <br />
Now, if you wanted to put info in for another student, you could just write it all out again with new info. You would also have to add the render method into each object, with any change requiring you of changing it in multiple places. <br />

So, there is a better way to do this, which is to use a contructor function. 

Constructor Function: 
- Capitialize the name of the function to differentiate from a regular fucntion. <br />
- similar syntax to object literal. 
function Student (){
  this.name='Steve';
  this.codeClass = 201;
  this.onLine = true;
};

at this point, we havnt yet made the object yet because it has not yet been instantiated. Once we have instatiated it, we have created an instance of a constructor function. 
- to create an instance of student: 
let steve = new Student (); we have thus created an instance of student with the values relavent to steve irl. 
- if you do : 
function Student (name) {
  this.name = name;
}
- then you can let steve = new Student ('steve') and it will auto fill the name part when you console.log steve. can then add everything else by adding a comma between them <br />
- can add methods by putting in this.methodname = function(){

}<br />
If you get all of the student into an array, you could then quickly pull up all their data without having to use the steve.introduce() method of accessing the function. <br />
So, <br />let studentArray =[]
<br /> you can then .push them in by 
- studentArray.push(this);
She is going over this in depth ataround 7pm. What she has done at this point is put all of the Student instances into the studentArray. <br />
She recommends not invoking things directly inside of the constructor. <br />
Prototype is used to add properties to a constructor function outside of the constructor function. <br />

Student.prototype.hairColor = 'black'; would make all instances of Student have the hairColor of black. <br />
you can declare a method on a prototype as well. <br />
- Student.prototype.sayHi = function (){
  console.log('hi');
};<br />

sara.sayHi(); invokes the method.  <br />
<br />
Prototypes deal with inheritance. The property of hair color has been inherited by all of the instances of student by using prototype. <br />
Class break at 714. <br /><br />

Now applying this to the kitten project <br />

renderList is different from render. 

Great overview, worth rewatching if you get confused. <br />
To render many objects, you would need to use a for loop. <br />
1. put all the instances into an array
2. use a for loop to go through array and make a table of all of the relevant data. 

Can use this to add cookie sales per hour. <br />
when making an instance, you can just do new Kitten (insert parameter values here). But if you do that, then you cannot single out an instance and add to it. <br />
Switch to our actual lab 7 at 808 pm. <br />

Goal is to replace all object literals with constructor functions then make instances for each location. Make the same table shown in the assignment. Rendering of header and footer should be separate from the constructor for the table. <br />
Lots of hints at 8:11. <br />
Remember to do everything on a new branch on GitHub. <br />
v 


## Reading Notes 

### [Domain Modeling](https://github.com/codefellows/domain_modeling#domain-modeling) 

Domain Modeling is the process of creating a conceptual model in code for a specific problem. The Model describes the various entities, their attributes and behaviors, and their constraints. <br />
An entity that that stores data in properties and encapsulates behaviors in methods is referred to as an object-oriented model. <br />
When you want to define the same properties between many objects, you will want to use a constructor function. <br /><br />
A constructor function is a function thatcreates an instance of a class which is typically called an object. In JS, a constructor gets called when you declare an object using the new keyword. The purpose of the constructor is to create an object and set values if there are any object properties present. <br /><br />

Fundamentally, Object oriented programming in JS requires: 
1. The new keyword to instantiate (create) an object.
2. a constructor function which initializes properties inside thato object using the this variable. 
3. the object is stored for later use. <br />
Method: a function which is a property of an object. Instance methods are built in tasks performed by an object instance. Static methods are tasks that are called directly on ab object constructor. 
<br />
Object: A collection of properties. W/in object literal syntax, a limited set of properties are initialized, then properties can be added or removed. property values can be values of any type, including other objects, which enables building of complex data structures. Properties are identified using key values, which is either a string or symbol value. 
<br />
Prototypes: the mechnaism by which JavaScript objects inherit features from one another. <br />
Using a prototype is a best practice in JavaScript. There is a statement in the page that it takes longer to locate a method on the prototype object, but it consumes less memory. 

tl;dr
Domain Modeling is the process of creating a conceptual model for a specific problem. And a domain model that is well articulated can verify and validate your understanding of that problem. 
1. when modeling a single entity that will have many instances, build self contained objects with the same attributes and behaviors. 
2. model it's attributes with a constructor function thatdefines and initializes properties.
3. model its behaviors with small methods thatfocus on doing one job well. 
4. create instances using the new keyword followed by a call to a constructor function. 
5. store the newly created object in a variable so you can access its properties and methods from outside. 
6. use the this variable within methods so thaty ou can access the objects properties and methods from INSIDE. 

### Chapter 6: “Tables” (pp.126-145) 

Table elements create the table, tr element creates the row, and td element creates a cell of the table. <br />tr is responsible for dictating the number of rows, and td element is responsible for number of columns. <br />td elements are located inside of tr elements. <br />
table headers are made by element th, and you use scope to make them columns or headers. <br />
can use rowspan or colspan to make one table entry span multiple rows or columns. <br />
For long tables, the headings of the table should sit inside of the thread element. <br />
The body of the table should sit inside of the tbody element. basically, the data of the table<br />
foot of table should be in tfoot, or perhaps the sum of all the data items. <br /> 
Older code would specify display settings and appearance of tables using HTML, now just use CSS. <br />

### Chapter 3: “Functions, Methods, and Objects” (pp.106-144)
Constructor Notation: The new keyword and the object constructor create a blank object, and you can then add properties and methods to the object. <br />
create a variable equal to new Object(); and that is how you use constructor notation. <br />
Update an object using object notation, same as when you add properties to an object, but give it a new value. <br />
You can create many objects using a function that serves as a template for creating objects. <br />
The name of a constructor begins with a capital letter, unlike with functions. this is to help developers remember to use the new keyword when you create an object using thatfunction. <br />
Constructor functions are used to create new instances of an object. <br />
assign a new variable name to your object, then = new ConstructorFunctionName(values of various proeprties). <br />
Create overview of this on page 113. 

This Keyword
<br />
Global: When a function is created at the top level of a script (not inside of another function or object) then it is in a global scope/context. <br /><br />

When a script is defined inside of an object, it becomes a method. In a method, THIS refers to the containing object. <br />

SToring Data: <br />
In JS, data is represented using name/value paris. 
- a variable has jsut one key (variable name) and one value. 
- an array has the array name and multiple peices of data. The key in this context is the array name, with the value being the entry of that array. Example hotels[1] tells us the value of the 1st key in the hotels array. <br />
If you want to access items via a property name or key, use an object. <br />
Objects store sets of name/value pairs. They can be properties(varibles) or methods(functions). <br />
In objects, values are accessed by entering their keys(name, date, size, etc). <br />
Arrays are a special type of object where each key is the index numer. <br />
You can create arrays of objects, and objects of arrays. <br />

Built in Objects: contain functionality commonly needed by many scripts. Think of them like a toolkit <br />
The toolkit has 3 compartments: 
1. Browser Object Model: contains objects that represent the current browser window or tab. It contains objects that model things like browser history and the device screen.
2. Document Object Model: Uses objects to create a representation of the current page. It creates a new object for each element(and each individual section of text) within the page. 
3. Global JavaScript Objects: Represents things that the JavaScript language needs to create a model of. Ex there is an object that deals only with dates and times. <br />
<br />
An Object model is a group of objects, each of which represent related things from the rea world. <br />

JavaScript treats everything as though it were an object. <br />

Commit message:

Updated reading and lecture notes

201d7.md, after:

# Day 7 Notes 

About Salmon Cookies: 
We want all of the rendering being done by the methods on the object. <br />

Render the function which determines cookie sales on each location. <br />
## 3 steps to get an element into the DOM: 
1. create a variable/element 
2. Give it content/text
3. Append it to the DOM. <br />
To append to the DOM, you need two things. 
1. a window into the DOM. (like getElementById)
2. An element that you can append to the DOM 

Just Get Seattle figured out, then copy and paste for other locations. Code will not be dry yet, but we will fix that later. <br />

For the cookies per hour array, push the number of cookies sold per hour into the array. Then add up the indices of the array for total cookies sold. <br />
Need to calculate cookies per hour once for each hour, likely will need a for loop to get this done. <br /> 

She is outlining it pretty well throughout the class, refer back to the video or to the app.js notes she is including. What she did was only for one hour of the day, we will need to do it for 14 hours of the day. <br /> ends at 6:56

12/23 In Class Lecture

She recommends doing the reading due on the tuesday by Monday, since we will likely be covering that in class. 
Class Lecture covers in depth how to do the Lab 6, worth referering back to. 


### 12/27 In Class Lecture

For Today: Code challenge. <br />

Focus of rest of lecture should be on tables and fonts. <br />
you will need to do CSS stuff on salmon cookies lab 6 eventually, focus on that today. <br />

### fonts 

Serif Fonts: a little extra flourish to the text, specifically on the foot. <br />
Sans Serif Fonts: No feet, looks blockier. Tend to read better on a screen due to pixelation. Also good for body texts. For the assignment, some text must be serif, some data mustbe in sans serif.  <br />
Specified fonts will have multiple font options. These are fallback fonts, so if a computer doesnt have it installed, you get the backup fonts.  Typically want to use fonts in common useage. <br /><br />
Google Fonts: Google provides fonts for anyone to use. To add a desired font, use +select this style on the page, it will open a side menu to open, and you then get a link to put in your HTML file. It is added BEFORE your stylesheet. When you do this, keep in mind the name of the font so you can access it in the stylesheets. Only need to use one google font. <br /><br />

### Tables 
<br />
Used to present data in rows and columns. It used to be that tables were the primary way you would design a page. <br />
When you make a tble using the table start and end tags, the browser itself will add the table body. So, its a good idea for you to add the Tbody yourself. <br />
Tbody is similar to the main tag in HTML. Existance of a body implies that there is also a T Head and a t Foot. T head is where you put the header cells(labels) and t foot is an ending cell, where you might have the sum of all the above cells. <br />

Query Selector allows you to target things in the DOM by their CSS Selectors. She goes over this at 811 in the class, updating the dom-manipulation-kitten file from a few days ago. <br />

Keep an eye on where your table data elements are, and make sure they are in the proper row. It can get confusing, she goes over this around 830. <br />
She says it can be very confusing working wiht tables, so look at your elements tab in your browser developer tools and see what is actually happening. <br />

First priority of lab tonight is to finish lab 6 JavaScript. <br /> If that is finished, then go over the stretch goals for lab 6, the CSS Stuff. <br />

### 12/23 Lecture

Constructor Functions 

Last week, we did object literals, they looked like: 

let oneStudent = {
  name: 'Steve'
  codeClass: 201,
  onLine: true,
};
she then console logs it to see what the object looks like. <br />
Now, if you wanted to put info in for another student, you could just write it all out again with new info. You would also have to add the render method into each object, with any change requiring you of changing it in multiple places. <br />

So, there is a better way to do this, which is to use a contructor function. 

Constructor Function: 
- Capitialize the name of the function to differentiate from a regular fucntion. <br />
- similar syntax to object literal. 
function Student (){
  this.name='Steve';
  this.codeClass = 201;
  this.onLine = true;
};

at this point, we havnt yet made the object yet because it has not yet been instantiated. Once we have instatiated it, we have created an instance of a constructor function. 
- to create an instance of student: 
let steve = new Student (); we have thus created an instance of student with the values relavent to steve irl. 
- if you do : 
function Student (name) {
  this.name = name;
}
- then you can let steve = new Student ('steve') and it will auto fill the name part when you console.log steve. can then add everything else by adding a comma between them <br />
- can add methods by putting in this.methodname = function(){

}<br />
If you get all of the student into an array, you could then quickly pull up all their data without having to use the steve.introduce() method of accessing the function. <br />
So, <br />let studentArray =[]
<br /> you can then .push them in by 
- studentArray.push(this);
She is going over this in depth ataround 7pm. What she has done at this point is put all of the Student instances into the studentArray. <br />
She recommends not invoking things directly inside of the constructor. <br />
Prototype is used to add properties to a constructor function outside of the constructor function. <br />

Student.prototype.hairColor = 'black'; would make all instances of Student have the hairColor of black. <br />
you can declare a method on a prototype as well. <br />
- Student.prototype.sayHi = function (){
  console.log('hi');
};<br />

sara.sayHi(); invokes the method.  <br />
<br />
Prototypes deal with inheritance. The property of hair color has been inherited by all of the instances of student by using prototype. <br />
Class break at 714. <br /><br />

Now applying this to the kitten project <br />

renderList is different from render. 

Great overview, worth rewatching if you get confused. <br />
To render many objects, you would need to use a for loop. <br />
1. put all the instances into an array
2. use a for loop to go through array and make a table of all of the relevant data. 

Can use this to add cookie sales per hour. <br />
when making an instance, you can just do new Kitten (insert parameter values here). But if you do that, then you cannot single out an instance and add to it. <br />
Switch to our actual lab 7 at 808 pm. <br />

Goal is to replace all object literals with constructor functions then make instances for each location. Make the same table shown in the assignment. Rendering of header and footer should be separate from the constructor for the table. <br />
Lots of hints at 8:11. <br />
Remember to do everything on a new branch on GitHub. <br />
v 



### 12/30 Lecture

This will just be a code review, then head to remo to fix up your lab 7. This Code review is over lab 7. 





## Reading Notes 

### [Domain Modeling](https://github.com/codefellows/domain_modeling#domain-modeling) 

Domain Modeling is the process of creating a conceptual model in code for a specific problem. The Model describes the various entities, their attributes and behaviors, and their constraints. <br />
An entity that that stores data in properties and encapsulates behaviors in methods is referred to as an object-oriented model. <br />
When you want to define the same properties between many objects, you will want to use a constructor function. <br /><br />
A constructor function is a function thatcreates an instance of a class which is typically called an object. In JS, a constructor gets called when you declare an object using the new keyword. The purpose of the constructor is to create an object and set values if there are any object properties present. <br /><br />

Fundamentally, Object oriented programming in JS requires: 
1. The new keyword to instantiate (create) an object.
2. a constructor function which initializes properties inside thato object using the this variable. 
3. the object is stored for later use. <br />
Method: a function which is a property of an object. Instance methods are built in tasks performed by an object instance. Static methods are tasks that are called directly on ab object constructor. 
<br />
Object: A collection of properties. W/in object literal syntax, a limited set of properties are initialized, then properties can be added or removed. property values can be values of any type, including other objects, which enables building of complex data structures. Properties are identified using key values, which is either a string or symbol value. 
<br />
Prototypes: the mechnaism by which JavaScript objects inherit features from one another. <br />
Using a prototype is a best practice in JavaScript. There is a statement in the page that it takes longer to locate a method on the prototype object, but it consumes less memory. 

tl;dr
Domain Modeling is the process of creating a conceptual model for a specific problem. And a domain model that is well articulated can verify and validate your understanding of that problem. 
1. when modeling a single entity that will have many instances, build self contained objects with the same attributes and behaviors. 
2. model it's attributes with a constructor function thatdefines and initializes properties.
3. model its behaviors with small methods thatfocus on doing one job well. 
4. create instances using the new keyword followed by a call to a constructor function. 
5. store the newly created object in a variable so you can access its properties and methods from outside. 
6. use the this variable within methods so thaty ou can access the objects properties and methods from INSIDE. 

### Chapter 6: “Tables” (pp.126-145) 

Table elements create the table, tr element creates the row, and td element creates a cell of the table. <br />tr is responsible for dictating the number of rows, and td element is responsible for number of columns. <br />td elements are located inside of tr elements. <br />
table headers are made by element th, and you use scope to make them columns or headers. <br />
can use rowspan or colspan to make one table entry span multiple rows or columns. <br />
For long tables, the headings of the table should sit inside of the thread element. <br />
The body of the table should sit inside of the tbody element. basically, the data of the table<br />
foot of table should be in tfoot, or perhaps the sum of all the data items. <br /> 
Older code would specify display settings and appearance of tables using HTML, now just use CSS. <br />

### Chapter 3: “Functions, Methods, and Objects” (pp.106-144)
Constructor Notation: The new keyword and the object constructor create a blank object, and you can then add properties and methods to the object. <br />
create a variable equal to new Object(); and that is how you use constructor notation. <br />
Update an object using object notation, same as when you add properties to an object, but give it a new value. <br />
You can create many objects using a function that serves as a template for creating objects. <br />
The name of a constructor begins with a capital letter, unlike with functions. this is to help developers remember to use the new keyword when you create an object using thatfunction. <br />
Constructor functions are used to create new instances of an object. <br />
assign a new variable name to your object, then = new ConstructorFunctionName(values of various proeprties). <br />
Create overview of this on page 113. 

This Keyword
<br />
Global: When a function is created at the top level of a script (not inside of another function or object) then it is in a global scope/context. <br /><br />

When a script is defined inside of an object, it becomes a method. In a method, THIS refers to the containing object. <br />

SToring Data: <br />
In JS, data is represented using name/value paris. 
- a variable has jsut one key (variable name) and one value. 
- an array has the array name and multiple peices of data. The key in this context is the array name, with the value being the entry of that array. Example hotels[1] tells us the value of the 1st key in the hotels array. <br />
If you want to access items via a property name or key, use an object. <br />
Objects store sets of name/value pairs. They can be properties(varibles) or methods(functions). <br />
In objects, values are accessed by entering their keys(name, date, size, etc). <br />
Arrays are a special type of object where each key is the index numer. <br />
You can create arrays of objects, and objects of arrays. <br />

Built in Objects: contain functionality commonly needed by many scripts. Think of them like a toolkit <br />
The toolkit has 3 compartments: 
1. Browser Object Model: contains objects that represent the current browser window or tab. It contains objects that model things like browser history and the device screen.
2. Document Object Model: Uses objects to create a representation of the current page. It creates a new object for each element(and each individual section of text) within the page. 
3. Global JavaScript Objects: Represents things that the JavaScript language needs to create a model of. Ex there is an object that deals only with dates and times. <br />
<br />
An Object model is a group of objects, each of which represent related things from the rea world. <br />

JavaScript treats everything as though it were an object. <br />
